please update visual-iterate.md so claude code knows to install playwright dependencies when needed

kick off sub agents to address each of the following:
1. research actual standard UX best practices from FAANG style companies and b2c SaaS giants and grade our implementation against it
2. check out our style guide and ensure our app conforms to it, screen by screen, kicking off sub agents for each screen
3. research performance optimization for Expo and see how our app structure can be optimized further
4. use the context7 mcp to check out relevant, up to date documentation on (topic or tool) and build a plan (but don't implement) and place the results in a new scratchpad .md doc


Hook execution timed out. All remaining PostToolUse:MultiEdit commands were cancelled.



why does the npm playwright command start with timeout 60? does that just mean we have to wait a minute before the test runs?  

i want to make sure claude code uses sub agents whenever possible - read about them here https://www.anthropic.com/engineering/claude-code-best-practices and suggest how to use them in my development workflow
i want to make sure claude code hooks are set up correctly and efficiently https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/hooks

why do i continue seeing this? "Hook execution timed out. All remaining PostToolUse:Write commands were cancelled." are there too many hooks trying to run at the same time? how can we make my hooks system more dynamic to automatically determine which hooks to run and have them run in the correct sequence OR simultaneously when appropriate?

why do i regularly see this when the dev server starts, after having to wait two minutes?   ⎿  Error: Command timed out after 2m 0.0s



now let's see the new orchestration system in action! there were updates made to the how i work detail page's hero section on mobile so its dimensions and text positioning match the hero section on the mobile case studies detail page. please review these changes and confirm that when the changes are pushed to the open github PR, i'll be able to review the changes and see that the how i work page's hero section uses identical dimensions and text positioning.